Version 3.20 (18 Nov 2022)
#Parent !Root
Changes

è	PrivateEye's user guide has been converted into StrongHelp format and now lives inside the app itself. Hello! The icon bar menu gains a "Help" menu entry to open it and the Filer's "Help" menu entry will launch it too.
è	RISC OS 5.21's extended format sprites are now used wherever possible, e.g. when loading PNGs containing alpha channels. This avoids the need to use the Tinct module which, while having provided great service for many years, is now unmaintained.
è	When in "Fit to screen" mode the viewer windows now draw a paper document style backdrop behind images. Its redraw is optimised to avoid flicker where possible.
è	A "Format" field was added to the image info window. This shows the screen mode of the display sprite and which OS versions it's compatible with.
è	The image info window's "Colours" field now shows when CMYK format sprites are detected.
è	The image info window's "Dimensions" field shows centimetres in addition to inches.
è	The chequerboard drawing code, used to indicate alpha transparency, was made common across all viewer windows. It now uses the PlotTiledSprite SpriteOp where available, in preference to Tinct's equivalent.
è	The icon bar's height is now read from the OS rather than being assumed, just in case it ever changes.
è	The Sprite alpha channel detector now treats both "all 0" and "all 255" for alpha values as indicating no alpha.
è	Sprite alpha channels and alpha masks are now identified in the image info window.
	è	Note on terminology: "Alpha channels" have alpha data inline amongst the pixels. This is the format that third party RISC OS applications used for years, including Tinct. "Alpha masks" have alpha data stored separately in the mask: a newer standard that RISC OS Select established. It's theoretically possible, but meaningless, to have both present in the same sprite.
è	The cache was rewritten to cope better in low memory situations. All open images are now requested through the cache. There's now a limit of 128 entries in the cache (= total open images). If this is a problem then set "cache.entries" to a larger value in Choices.
è	The cache size value in Choices is now shown in MBytes.

Fixes

è	Fix: Edits performed in "Fit to screen" will now refresh just the image area, not the whole window.
è	Fix: Zoom-to-point (Shift-Click) now works correctly when in "Fit to screen" mode.
è	Fix: Scale > Fit to screen now respects the cover icon bar flag.
è	Fix: Sprites which error when rendering will now, like JPEGs, draw the error message to the viewer window rather than causing a crash.
#Line
<Previous changes=>.314>
#Subpage 314
Version 3.14 (19 Aug 2022)
Changes

è	When loading new images the îFit to screenï mode will now only ever scale downwards. This is more helpful than the previous behaviour which would scale small images up to needlessly enormous proportions. Note that the îFit screenï button on the scale view dialogue is unaffected.
è	The data transfer system has had an upgrade: 
	-	An app-to-app transfer wonët result in {fCode}\<Wimp$Scrap>{f} used in title bars now. Itëll use {fCode}\<untitled>{f} in title bars, and {fCode}ImageFile{f} when saving an image with no known name. Received files are marked as modified too. This matches the behaviour of standard RISC OS apps.
	-	Message_DataOpen template mode (when est_size is -2) is supported (itës not super useful because PrivateEyeës not a full editor, but it is in there).
è	libpng has been upgraded to 1.6.37.

Fixes

è	Fix: The GIF loader would crash if fed bad data.
è	Fix: The PNG loader had memory leaks on the failure path.
è	Fix: The rotate window thumbnail could have excessive black borders. Iëve made a small effort to make the scaling more accurate but note that, if enabled, Tinct has accuracy issues when downscaling that do cause a black border.
è	Fix: When you adjust click to close a modified viewer window, the directory display thatës opened will now pop up only after the viewer is gone rather than obscuring the discard/cancel/save dialogue.
è	Fix: The effects window scroll list selection highlight now moves along with the dragged item.
è	Fix: The expand dynamic range effect no longer crashes when thereës only two colours in the image.
è	Special bonus fix: Reduced !RunImage by 50K. WimpSlot reduced to 480K.
#Line
<Previous changes=>.310>
#Subpage 310
Version 3.10 (12 Sep 2021)
Changes

è	Progressive JPEGs are now passed straight through to the OS when it is capable of decoding them. This requires RISC OS Select with SpriteExtend 1.30 or RISC OS 5 with SpriteExtend 1.73, or later. You can still force JPEG cleaning on from the choices if you wish.
è	The information given on JPEGs is enhanced. The source info window will show the details of the file format, being JFIF, Exif, Adobe or a combination thereof; Baseline, Extended Sequential or Progressive DCT coding and whether the packing was Huffman or Arithmetic.
è	Hand-in-hand with the above is enhanced colourspace reporting. The "Colours" field will show whether the JPEG is encoded as YCbCr (the most common), YCCK (like CMYK), RGB or CMYK. It will report the number of components used, and the depth of those components too.
è	Multiple effect windows may now be open concurrently.
è	PrivateEye is now cross-compiled using GCCSDK.
è	PrivateEye has now been packaged for PackMan.
#Line
<Previous changes=>.301>
#Subpage 301
Version 3.01 (19 Jan 2018)
Fixes

è	Fixed the image stepping routine (the one which PAGEUP and PAGEDOWN triggers) to cope with filesystems that don't return predictable context values.
#Line
<Previous changes=>.300>
#Subpage 300
Version 3.00 (08 Feb 2017)
Fixes

è	Fix: Avoid crashes on Raspberry Pi 3 (Cortex-A53) by fixing a stray "MOVS pc" instruction which had previously gone undetected.
è	Fix: Zero page access in choices handling code which would cause a crash on zero page protected OSes.
